# Linux Cheat Sheet
## The *very very useful ones*
### `man`
- `man <command name>`
- The main command returns a helpful help page that gives you a brief description of what exactly a command does and how to use it.
- In case that man doesn't work, make sure that you have `mandocs` or `man` installed.
- The manual entries can also be accessed via a browser.

### `--help` or `-h` flag
 - Sometimes a command is too niche to warrant a page in the manual. In such cases you can use the help flags. There is no set standard but they're usually one of the two
 - `<command> --help` or `<command> -h`
 - If one doesn't work, try the other.
 
### `sudo` and `su` 
- `su` opens the current shell as root while `sudo` runs a specified command as root.
- In Linux root priviliges are very similiar to Adminstrator priviliges in Windows
- Be very careful when running anything as root. It can break your system.--
- It also requires the current user to know the root password as well be a part of the sudoers list

## The Essentials
### `cd`
- `cd` is used to traverse the filesystem from the terminal
- `cd <path>` will move the terminal to the defined path
- `cd ..` will move the terminal to the parent directory if it exists
- `cd /` will move the terminal to the root directory
- `cd ~` or just `cd` will move the terminal to the home directory 

### `ls`
- `ls` shows all the visible files and folders in directory. 
- `ls -a` shows all the hidden and visible files and folders in the directory.
- `ls -A` shows **almost** all the hidden and visible files and folders in the directory(It excludes the `.` which loops back to the current directory and the `..` which points to the parent directory)
- `ls -l` displays all the visible files and folders and lists them in tabular form with some extra information(like size, author, date modified, etc)

### `touch`
- `touch <filename>` creates an empty folder with the name specified

### `mkdir`
- `mkdir <foldername>` creates a folder with the specified name in the current location of the terminal.
- `mkdir -p <path_to_folder>` creates the folder in the path specified as well as all the missing folders in the path to the folder.

### `mv`
- `mv <source_path> <destination_path>` moves a file from the source_path to the destination_path
- `mv <path>/old_name <path>/new_name` will rename a file named `old_name` in the location `<path>` to `new_name`
    
### `cp` 
- `cp <source_path> <destination_path>` copies a file from the source_path to the destination_path
- `cp -r` is used to copy folders by recursively copying their contents
    
### `rm` 
- `rm <file1> <file2> <file3>` deletes the files mentioned
- **The Recycle Bin or Trash does not exist when it comes to deleting things from the terminal** so be careful with this command.
- `rm -f <file>` force deletes the file and overrides any warnings.
- `rm -r <folder>` recursively deletes the contents of a folder and finally deletes the folder too.
- **UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCE SHOULD YOU RUN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING UNLESS YOU ARE ABSOLUTELY SURE ABOUT WHAT YOU ARE DOING**
    - `sudo rm -rf /` this will delete everything in your root directory
    - `rm -rf ~` this will delete everything in your home directory
- Running `rm -rf` with elevated priviliges in a dangerous location will most probably break your OS.
- Exercise caution.
   
### `grep`
- `grep` is used to search the content of a specified file or durectory for a given string or a regex
- `grep '<search_term>' <file>` searches for the `search_term` in the `<file>`
- `grep -i '<search_term>' <file>` will search for the `search_term` in a case insensitive way.
- `grep -r '<search_term>' <folder_path>` will search for the `search_term` recursively within the specified directory.
    
### `cat`
- `cat` allows the user to execute basic text modification from the terminal
- It is not a full blown editor like Vim or Emacs but it can read and append to files
- `cat <file>` will display the contents of the file 
- `cat >> <file>` will allow you to enter some text into the terminal. The entered text is then appeneded to the end of the file.

## The Extras
### `pwd`
- `pwd` returns the path to the active directory

### `top`
- `top` displays the processes running in real time. It also displays resource utilization and other information regarding the process.

### `pkill`
- `pkill <pattern>` kills the first processes with the string `<pattern>` in their name

### `pgrep`
- `pgrep <pattern>` returns the PID of all processes with the string `<pattern>` in their name

### `kill`
- `kill <PID>` terminates the process with the PID specified

## Useful for Bash Scripting

### `echo`
- `echo "Hello, World!"` will print Hello, World! on the terminal.

### `wc`
- `wc <file>` will print the number of words in a file
- `wc -l <file>` will print the number of lines in a file

### Piping data
- We can pass the output of one command to the inpint of another by using the `|` operator.
- `grep -r '<search_term>' <folder_name> | wc -l` will return the number of entries that match the search
