# Git Cheat Sheet
## The most basic and essential commands.
### Installation
After you have [downloaded](https://git-scm.com/) git from the URL you can continue with the content below.

### Setup 
#### ``` git config --global user.email "yourEmail"```
-  This commands let's you set up a email id that will be displayed in your commits
#### ```git config --global user.name "yourName"```
- This commands let's you set up a name that will be displayed in your commits
  
###  Initialisation
#### ```git init```
- This initialises a new git repository locally in your project root
- Follow the commands below to start using version control software
  
#### ``` git add filename.filetype```
- Adds the mentioned file to the staging area
- Just replace the filename.filetype to your file name
- To add everything in your repository just use ``` git add .```

#### ``` git status```
- To show the current status of your repository 
- The status includes staged,unstaged and untracked files.
  
#### ``` git commit```
- This will open up an editor to add the commit message to the changes done in the repositories.
- If you don't want a editor to open up every time you make a commit use the command ```git commit -m "your message"```
  
#### ``` git log```
- This will show the commit history for the repository along with the commit id for each commit.
- you may even use ```git log -p``` to view the commit history along with the all the files and their changes. 
  
### How to ignore files in git

- Create a ```.gitignore``` file and commit it
- Add all the files that you want to ignore in your git repository inside the ```.gitignore``` file

### Roll back to a older or a specific version

#### ``` git revert commit_ID```
  

### Branches in git

#### ``` git branch branchName```
- By default you will be in the main branch. With this command you can create new branch 
- Git wont automatically switch to any branch you should change branch with the next command
  
#### ``` git checkout branchName```
- Used to switch to a specific branch
- To get a list of existing branches use the command ```git branch```

#### ```git merge brancName```
- Incorporates the changes of another branch to the current or main branch.

### How to add and work on a remote repository in Git

#### ```git remote add origin https://repo_here```
- Adds your local repository to a remote repository (on GitHub, GitLab or any other cloud based git hosting domains).

#### ```git clone https://remote_repo_url```
- Creates a local copy of an existing remote repository.
#### ``` git push```
- After you are done working your local repository you can push the changes into your remote repository using the above command.
  
#### ```git pull```
- This will merge the changes of your remote repository with your local repository.
- Remember to commit the changes of your local repository before using ```git pull```.
