# Basic Programming
## The fundamentals of programming.
The concepts of the C programming language will be discussed here but many of them are widely applicable.

### Variables
#### ```data-type variable-name = value```
- Variables are names given to computer memory locations in order to store data and access it throughout a program.
- We can think of them as containers of data.

### Data Types and Format Specifiers
- Each variable in C has an associated data type, which tells us what kind of information the variable can hold. 
- Each data type requires different amounts of memory.
- Format specifiers are used in input and output to tell the compiler what kind of data is being handled.

|Data Type|Memory(Bytes)|Format Specifier|Example|
|:------|:----|:------|:-----|
|char|1|%c|char c = 'a';|
|int|4|%d|int i = 0;|
|float|4|%f|float f = 9.19;|
|short|2|%hd|short s = 5;|
|long|4|%ld|long l = 123456789;|
|double|8|%lf|double pi =  3.14159265358979323846;|

- To calculate the range of a data type:
  - Calculate the number of bits it can hold.
    - ```1 byte = 8 bits```
  - For an `unsigned`  data type, the range is `0 to 2ⁿ-1` where n is the number of bits it can hold.
  - For a `signed` data type, the range is `-2ⁿ to 2ⁿ-1` where n is the number of bits it can hold divided by 2.

### Basic Headers
#### ```#include <filename.h>```
- C has numerous libraries that include predefined functions to make programming easier, which are accessible through header files.
- We request to use a header file, which usually has a '.h' extension, by importing it with the C preprocessing directive `#include`.
##### ```include <stdio.h>```
- This header is used to access standard input and output functions.
##### ```include <stdlib.h>```
- This header is used to access memory allocation and freeing functions.

### Functions
#### ```scanf(format-string[...,arguments,...]);```
- This function is used to get the input from the user.
#### ```printf(format-string[...,arguments,...]);```
- This function is used to print a statement.

### Comments
```//Single Line Comments```

``/* Multi Line
Comments */``

### Conditionals
### Loops
### Arrays
### Functions
### Classes
